in order to
keep um to keep the kid safe um in in
terms of the accessibility question
um all playgrounds are required to be
accessible so when we are looking at
different structures there is usually
what's called a transfer point at the
base of a structure which is the place
at which um an individual with limited
Mobility such as in a wheelchair would
be able to be placed onto the structure
um and out of their wheelchair there are
also requirements um for any specific
structure a certain number of play
elements that must be ground level um so
that even if you could not get on to the
structure itself there would still be
things you could do um from the ground
so there's definitely you
know a lot of existing requirements out
there that um both the manufacturers of
these structures and we would be seeking
to fulfill um and part of what we're
we're hoping to put out there is you
know asking in in terms of um proposals
asking for the most accessible features
possible and the most inclusive features
possible okay so thanks Shar and uh it
would be again great uh that somewhere
in the plan it specified that we were
going to meet with these safety
standards uh you know the the commission
has done a a fantastic job of going out
and res search in this stuff and
uh we we are required to have it be in
the public record you know what those
things
are and
uh and I think you've done the homework
we just need to write it write it down
as part of the plan and uh and have that
go so thank you so Jed would you want um
that shown on the plans in the form of a
note in the general notes that are under
a playground category that we could we
can describe the depth of the wood chips
um and the the as the safety standards
that it's meeting the Safety Stand yeah
okay that would be a very acceptable way
to do it perfect I I'll make sure we do
that and that the structures that are
going to eventually uh be built um
comply with Ada standards for some as TM
or whatever governing body
you
okay that it I I don't want to speak out
of terms Jed is that that about
right I'm just trying to think uh I
don't know what got us onto the
discussion there on all that safety
stuff I uh I'm trying to transition from
our
discussion to uh calling on the the
public I want to hear what the Public's
got to say and I guess so I think we're
there there's a few more things in oh
that's where we were Jim fisty okay good
thanks way all right um the applica uh
next in Jim's comments or the
application should include a statement
by a licensed professional engineer
indicating that the plan is in
conformance with all applicable
regulations and he notes of particular
concern is determination that the
project does does not negatively impact
the availability of flood water storage
for a 100-year
event Inland Wetlands did approve the
Project based upon the original
plan and uh that is part of the record
here and I don't believe that the plan
dated six uh sub makes any substantive
changes substantial changes to the
initial plan that in inwi inwi Inland
Wetlands
reviewed Jim Joe would you be able to
uh put that comment in about the uh the
no reduction in the water storage area
absolutely yes okay we actually
increased the storage Minor by a minor
amount yes okay very good
thanks
okay uh section 11 two of the zoning
regulations uh detail the bulk or
dimensional requirements of all
development
um the uh we already discussed the
Pavilion and how it falls within the
front yard setback uh Eric addressed
that uh for the commission to
consider uh we talked about storm water
management uh
Jim did not have an opportunity to
review the lighting
plan let
see
and that is about
it Jim does have
U some suggested motions here but I'm I
want to get into that when we close out
the public and go to
deliberation right I'm not sure we're
yeah I was going to say we're not sure
we're there
yet
okay now I think that uh that wraps up
what uh what Jim had there so at this
point I'm going to uh try and run
through the list of attendees that I see
here for uh public comment and uh if you
have anything to say uh now is a good
time to do that and so
ba I know you've commented a couple of
times uh you're probably here from the
uh committee that put together the thing
um any other comments that you'd like to
make no thank you we just appreciate the
time of the planning and zoning
committee and look forward to seeing
this project through to
fruition okay uh
Brandy oh hello hello yeah I've helping
on the uh committee also on the
playground committee um I also have a
local business in town I'm the home
daycare on Long Hill Road so this is an
important project to me and I think to
all the young families in town um we
have been talking God I don't even know
15 20 years about trying to do this so
um we're very excited about it all all
the families I talk to in town are very
excited about it so yeah we're just
ready to to get going going on it and
get it all in
place okay and we appreciate everything
thank
you
Celeste uh thank you Jed um yeah I just
think that this is a a wonderful project
for the town and thank you to the uh
committees for uh their hard work and
dedication and time uh that they put
into researching this and proposing this
um I agree with Brandy I think this will
be a wonderful addition to the town we
have lots of new families uh in town and
I think this will be great and uh
looking forward to uh playing some
pickle ball and uh hanging out there
soon so um I think this is great thank
you next up is
Eve good evening I'm Eve I live um on
the corner of long hill and Riverside I
was just curious if there was going to
be any security cameras or anything
installed at the new proposed uh pickle
ball
fields Christine you want to uh so
address that we would like to have
security that is definitely uh one of
our goals we are trying to figure out uh
there there are different ways to set up
security and it usually needs to
feedback to the resident state trooper
and we're trying to figure out
how that would where the cameras would
uh reroute the information back uh they
they it wouldn't be like a a standalone
type camera unit that you could set up
in your yard because someone would have
to go down there and check and Rewind
you know the tapes daily so we we're
trying to figure out if the feed how how
to get the feed back to the resident
state trooper um or even through the
Public Works building across the river
so we would really like to have that in
place um uh just to make this to keep
this area as beautiful and and just to
make sure everybody's using it in a
responsible
way understood thank you so
much Hank um any comments for us on this
did we uh satisfy your concerns in the
letter that you sent us I believe so I
had a step out so I missed a bit a
little bit of it um Jed so the only
question I had is I heard that it was
you know it was shielded dark sky
compliant
um uh but do with as far as the um type
of lighting the warmth of the lighting
do we do we manage to fall within that
4500 the 5700 or so uh
Kelvin um I don't know that I saw that
on the plan and
uh so we'll have to take a look at that
I don't know the answer to that Hank I
saw some numbers there but I don't know
what those numbers meant so Hank I can
answer that so the the specific lighting
detail sheets that we got have multiple
options for that so when we specify it
we would specify a an LED bulb uh or
bulbs for usage that are in the correct
range great and then the only other uh
comment I have had is I think to follow
up on something Jed that you were
talking about the height of the poles I
heard I think I heard 30 feet um I don't
know what the standard is you know so
I'm less conversent on that but I would
certainly weigh in that obviously the
lower the better because you're going to
have less you know less throw um you
know to the periphery uh you know beyond
the the the the courts but um uh I think
as long as we maintain the you know that
high percentage of the lighting being
maintained on the you know within 35 ft
of the of the courts and so forth you're
you're good but that's I think that's
worth exploring you know what the what
the height options are
oh okay thank you Hank
yep next person on the list is Jeremy I
think you're probably here with John I
don't know if you had any comments you
wanted to make at this point Jeremy no
I'm here for the pccd discussion thank
you okay very good uh Katherine
Hutchinson yes thank you my only um
question is is to whether or not the
proposed plan particularly with regard
to the play area um anyone has consulted
with the town's insurance carrier to
make sure that they're not going to
require something that either hasn't
been covered here or that they might
want to have to change their PL in order
to be compliant with what the insurance
company
might
require Christine I'll go back to you as
kind of the the leader of the uh the
group there was there any discussion on
that sounds like a good point to check
that is that is a great Point uh we have
to look into
that I don't know if it would follow
under the same categories as the
playscape that is currently at the
Andover elementary school if it would be
under that
umbrella or in addition to we'll have to
look at the town's policy but that is an
excellent point thank you for bringing
it to our attention yeah
welcome so I can partially answer that
the town uses kerma which is a members
based uh Municipal insurance program and
it's basically a loss Bas program so
there in in something like this we would
work with them in terms of Hazard
mitigation um which we do for a lot of
things but they never tell the town you
can or you can't do anything um they
just have their risk management review
whatever it is that you're you're
proposing to do but um our rate only go
up if we have actual accidents that are
reportable
claims so was there something on in
there that we needed to uh to check with
because we're adding this additional
liability or you think we're good to go
there
Eric uh I mean I could certainly put a
note into our kerma rep and you know I
would actually think the pickle ball
courts probably have as much liability
as the playgrounds because you think
about all
the residents that are aging um and that
are more susceptible to
injuries um who are now going out and
doing things to make themselves healthy
there is definitely an increased
accident risk
but you
know um but I I would bet that the vast
maj majority of towns in the kerma that
are covered by kerma have both multiple
playgrounds as well as pickle ball
courts and other athletic
facilities um you know they've not had a
problem with any of our
previous uh recreational offerings so I
don't think it would be an issue but I'm
happy to reach out to Kera okay y I
appreciate that I think it is a good
point just to make sure we're not uh
probably the the only result would be
your your bill would go up a little but
I don't
know but I also don't necessarily think
that's a zoning issue I don't yeah I I
don't think it is either I just thought
it was something that we probably want
to take a look
at um Jed this is Katherine again yep go
ahead my thought being is
that I know when the church came and did
uh insurance came and did its
annual review and looking at the church
property that that was one of the things
that they had called to our attention
and required that we do very specific
things in order to have the coverage I
would just hate to see the project
that's under the discussion tonight go
forward and then find out that the
insurance company was going to require
something
to with regard to the liability
insurance that the town has just a
suggestion for try to get everything
taken care of before the final approval
or whatever if that's what's going to
happen um that every base be
covered understand and appreciate uh
appreciate the comment Katherine uh we
we owe it to ourselves whether even
though it's not the zoning issue the the
the commission that put together the
plan owes to work with Eric to make sure
that uh we're all okay there now my
thought being that the plan that you if
it's
approved is not going to cause problems
with the insurance that could be taken
care of while this process before
Planning and Zoning is going forward
that's it just say I trying to I see
what you're saying if there's anything
we need to add to the detail to make it
uh so that we're in good shape yeah okay
just a suggestion no thank
you um anything else
Katherine no that's it thank you
okay next person uh Maryann
guile uh sorry I was muted I'm just
waiting for the portion of the very good
um Sarah do you have any other comments
for
us um I don't think so I just wanted to
say as someone that you know grew up in
Andover and has now returned to raise my
own family here um I really think that
having a area with a playground and the
pickle ball courts and the Pavilion uh
will just be a tremendous asset to the
well-being of the community both physic
physically um and in terms of you know
social and um emotional health and we
know that that's an area where a lot of
people have been struggling and that
bringing people together and bringing
people together Outdoors um is just
going to be a tremendous asset for our
town so um I really hope that we can
make this happen thank you thanks
SAR and
Shannon well Sarah almost took away my
thunder but I'll add some some things
first of all Jed thank you to you and
the commission
um for all of your time this evening and
your consideration um really appreciate
it um as someone who was on the
committee dealing with the soccer field
development when we were dealing with
that Grant I was so pleased that we got
this other Grant um because ever since
that time as Brandy kind of alluded to
um we very much have wanted to put a
playground in and when we had our first
meeting of this committee the number one
priority was getting a playground um as
every everybody who's on here knows
who's had any kids in town um the only
playground that now exists is at the
school and while school is in session
there's no other place to bring kids in
Andover to play on a playground so
that's been a top priority and as Sarah
just mentioned um we wanted to try to
appeal uh to the entire town so to
provide a social place while the
Pavilion is there um the pickle ball
Courts for us aging community who can
still get around a pickle ball court um
and then I think it was really important
something that that a lot of us came to
similarly the only basketball court
that's Outdoors is at the school as well
so um instead of creating a fourth
pickle ball court um we thought it would
be great to have that area available um
as an area where kids could play while
parents or grandparents play Pickleball
um for basketball or for other sports um
to try to be an all-encompassing area so
uh I'm on the committee as an as an
alternate I've really been pleased with
all of the work that we've done and our
chairs have done a a fantastic job um
Christine's um knowledge has been
invaluable um so I really hope that the
town sees the importance of this uh
project and and lets us go forward thank
you thanks
Jen and I think
those were the only people that uh that
I see on my listing here the names
popped around a little bit is there
anybody out there that I
missed hey Jed Jed it's Wayne um I one
thing I neglected to bring up on the
lighting is the hours of
operation
and I know Hank had some
recommendations uh in concerning uh
migratory birth
words uh but does the uh does the
recreation the the Andover Recreation
committee have um any thoughts or or do
they have any thoughts concerning hours
of lighting that um should be
considered I thought I heard the
discussion of nine or 10 which fell
within Hank's concern of 11 I think so
right that's where we're at uh
okay yep so I think we got that that
covered from Hank's concern anyhow very
good wa I think also people will be um
during during the heat of the summer
when the days are really hot people
might be waiting till after dinner to go
out and play but it's not dark in
Midsummer until after 8:00 so it might
be a 2hour window that they're on
whereas in the spring or the fall um as
the day nights are starting to get
warmer and people are starting to play
outside again you know it's getting dark
at you know 7 or 6:37 7:30 you know they
might go on a little bit earlier but we
want to cap the the end time so spring
and fall might have a little bit more of
a duration but in the summertime we'll
have the smallest duration that the
lights will be coming
on my thoughts were that the committee
would have a better feel for um the
pickle ball enthusiasts and when they
might want to be using the pickle ball
courts than someone like
me well we we do know I mean In the Heat
of the summer they are waiting till
after did they either playing early in
the morning and they're trying to wrap
up before 9 or 10:00 a.m. just so
they're not out when the sun is really
high um and then usually later in the
afternoon as the sun's starting to go
down and the air is a little bit cooler
um I think it's a it's a day by day um
but I do see a lot of people in the
summertime playing very early in the
morning you know 7:00 to 9:30 10 maybe
11: if if it's not too hot and then
through the afternoon there's usually a
break and then a pickup around dinner
time or after
dinner and that is a discussion that's
required to be part of the lighting plan
so uh we we need to have that you know
flushed out a little bit when we get to
talk about that at this point uh Hank
Did you have a comment there I see your
your name popped up I I just wanted to
note that um the timing you know which
was no lighting from 11: p.m. to 6: am
really was in two migratory Windows the
summer is outside of those windows so if
folks were there earlier or later in the
summer months June through early early
August they'd be fine because the the
migratory windows are August 15th um to
November 15th and April 1st to May 31st
so basically you've got June through
August 14th where you know the the
timing is really not a big
issue okay thank you
Hank so at this point
uh I think that's all the discussion
that uh we wanted to have on the plan
for
tonight the uh next up on the agenda is
close or continue the public
hearing and my sense would
be we need to continue the public
hearing the uh the lighting
plan needs uh a little more work on
it the
uh setback issue my my sense is that
uh Eric uh came up with a a creative
solution if that's what the town wants
to
propose they should propose that as part
of the formal plan and uh we'll have a
chance to think about it and and discuss
that at our next
meeting and then the
third thing that I've got to wrestle
with is I
noticed that we started the recording a
little late very late in the public
hearing and I think what that might
require us to do is have that initial
part of the public hearing over again so
we can have that discussion and be part
of the public
record I'm not an expert on that um we
haven't had the problem of not recording
the thing in the past but I think that's
the way that's going to end up
going Jed that was uh I I ended up
hitting record I I didn't notice until
later that the meeting hadn't hadn't
been auto recording I happened to notice
up at the top that it wasn't set for
auto record so I I switched it on so I
apologize for that no I I understand and
I didn't back you up when uh when you
the little Banner normally signs up
there that uh recording in progress and
so uh um but it is a requirement that I
think it's a requirement that the public
hearing be recorded and uh so I'll have
to figure out the best way to do that
but between those those three issues and
it gives us a chance to uh since I think
we'll be going through the drawings
again if we have an updated drawing at
the start of the next meeting you know
the uh the we can talk about the changes
that were made and and discuss those and
and get that all in the record but I
think with with those couple of issues
you know we cannot close out uh the
public hearing
tonight so I intend to continue the
public public hearing at our next
meeting on uh February
18th and if all goes well we would be
able to make a
decision uh following the closure of the
public hearing at that
point any commission members have any uh
comments or concerns about that way
ahead okay so at this point uh we
adjourn the public hearing for tonight
to be continued on
February 18th I think is our next
February 18 next meeting
date
um next up on the agenda is uh call to
order the regular meeting it's 8:40 I
call the meeting to
order and uh I'm looking for the we we
are still recording are we not John yeah
okay yeah we're good roll call and
seating of alterat I see all the regular
commission members uh
present I don't see any alternates here
tonight um so uh so the regular
commission is here the alternates are uh
absent and we will seat none of the
alternates changes in additions to the
agenda I have
uh
none public Communications limited to
concerns not slated for uh the public
hearing anybody from the public have any
comments at this
point okay up new
business first is the application of the
town of hand over on the pickle ball
courts play gapes Etc and uh we will not
be deliberating that item tonight we'll
wait until after we close the public
hearing at the uh at the next
meeting review and comment on the budget
for the coming year and uh John if you
can let me share my screen uh yeah you
should be able
to let's see it's been so long since I
did this I
forgot there we go
okay I've got a couple of the blocks
okay the blocks are G away from the
where the business is uh one of the one
of the
concerns in our current budget is is uh
we we have about used up the uh the
budget for the year for Professional
Services and that ends up primarily due
to the legal proceedings on the gravel
pit and so
uh I would like to think that we're
about at the end of that but we're
probably not and so I feel that uh you
know for next year we've got to at least
raise the budget up from 6,500 to 10,000
I don't know that that's going to be
enough but uh
um legal legal things as we knew when we
started are not cheap so that was my
recommendation there training
um I'm hoping that all the commission
members attend the uh Connecticut Bar
Association training on March
22nd uh that's the biannual training we
have to do so that if we do that this
year training budget should not need
very much money next year and I lowered
it to $150 just in case somebody's got
some training that we need to do in
there and then the mapping we've got a
big mapping project uh going on right
now trying to fix up our zoning map
um we are taking we're looking to take
the money for that out of Professional
Services it it was a bill of like
$3,000 way more than we had for printing
Maps so I left it standard three $300
for mapping and that would be printing
out Maps once we got them right so
that's uh that's what I would propose
for our budget for next
year and I will make a motion to approve
the budget as
discussed I'll second that joh thank you
Scott any discussion on the budget from
anybody hearing none I'll call for a
vote
uh an hi Scott hi Patrick uh I I'm sorry
I couldn't get to the mute button fast
enough uh is there any way we could
print out those maps in House at the
Town
Hall
um I don't know maybe we could I'll
check into it but I'm sure that uh in
the past that $300 has gone to uh
providing us some of those professional
services that we end up overspending so
it's not like we don't get to take
advantage of them um okay so I'd like to
leave the number there that's what we've
done and uh and I'm sure we print out
whatever we can but
uh that be
that so Patrick your vote hi
Leanne hi and I vote I as well motion to
approve the budget passes 50000
uh next up uh let me stop my
sharing next up is Hank and
uh apologize we're running a little late
tonight but uh I think it was all good
stuff but Hank your turn you're on okay
um can I share
screen am I able to do that yep you
should be able to w
okay folks see
that yeah me hold on put it into
slideshow
mode okay and I thank the Commission in
advance for uh allowing us to take up
two sessions um of your uh of your time
um so I'll try to get through this it'll
depend I guess on the the amount of
questions you might have about of the
recommendations so at the last meeting
uh we presented on um the results of our
open space analysis and the natural
resource you know and our process for
the natural resource
inventory based on the that work we um
we have come up with some uh draft
recommendations um that we'd like to uh
you know for consideration over the uh
next 10 years um you know as we plan on
trying to achieve some of the goals
assoc that we've outlined for uh
protecting our natural resources and for
open space uh so just as a refresher
there we we've looked at the
recommendations in three broad
categories policy recommendations which
primarily focus on the open space plan
regulatory recommendations which
primarily address uh the inla wetlands
and water courses commission regulations
and zoning regulations in particular the
Ard the rural design um regulations um
and then a group we call management
which involves the work of the
Conservation Commission um some of the
work of Public Works Department um land
owners in town and uh the Andover Lake
Association um and this really involves
more non-regulatory it's more about
trying to imp promote and Implement more
best management practices um townwide
that assist with uh um some of our
natural resources
uh so quickly the for the policy
recommendations around the open space
plan these are very similar to the
recommendations that were made back in
2015 with the open space which were
basically to utilize the open space map
and supporting data from the natural
resource inventory when prioritizing
Parcels um within open space corridors
for protection through acquisition
transfer development rights or Andor
conservation easements so basically it's
really to use that information to help
prioritize areas that we might pursue
for various um easements or
acquisition uh continue the fee and Le
of um that's in place for open space
where appropriate and budget uh will
recommending an annual budget of
$50,000 if possible for uh the open
space fund and I know we've made gains
on in in that area which is which is
good um seek open space funding through
State min ipal cost sharing program and
coordinate open space goals with
Joshua's trust Joshua's trust is the
land trust that really um we we fall
within their catchment area so there's
opportunities for Partnerships around
acquisition of open space and and
working with Jos trust to uh to you know
to help Provide support for um
Acquisitions that we might pursue um
State funding usually they fund um
two-year budgets that provide some
matching fun fing for towns to per you
know that are that are pursuing open
space so there's some good Grand
opportunities there we made an attempt
last year and we're pursuing that but
the the property sold before we were
able to actually submit the the grant we
actually got to the stage of finalizing
the Grant and communicating with deep
but we never really formally
submitted um proactively engag land
owners of critical undeveloped Parcels
within open space corridors regarding
long-term conservation options and this
to me is is a real important piece
landowner relations are very critical to
protection and natural resources
regulations really only get so far um
really working with land owners uh is is
a critical piece and a critical chunk of
that is really looking at um building
relationships to help promote opportun
so that land owners understand the
options that they might have um should
they want to preserve land as easements
or um you know should they be interested
in um long-term protection of of of
their properties uh so that we we're a
strong advocate of building landowner
relations and moving forward and some of
the roles that we're going to take
within the Conservation Commission will
be toward that goal um utilize the
natural resource inventory data and maps
to guide various use of Municipal open
space and we've already taken strides on
that with some mowing recommendations
that we can we can talk about so really
these all address um sort of policies to
pursue um managing our open space
correctly as well as potentially
acquiring or protecting additional open
space in a very strategic manner based
on the information that we based on the
open space that we have protected now
and based on the results of our natural
resource
inventory Hank are you aware of any open
any properties that we should be looking
at now for open space acquisition yeah
there's a few that that periodically
come up that we've um we've you know
we'll we'll tend to keep our eye on and
had discussions I mean you know there
was the the large the of course there
was the property along the skunka mug
river that that is ass mostly in the
town of centry but there's significant
acreage in and over the old uh Times
Farm Camp um you know there was that
property but that was obviously ver I
understand that's that's in process now
of potentially reopening as a camp I
don't know all the details but that was
one um you know there's been you know
the Lano property which we made a a a
significant effort to try to uh get an
open space Grant with the state to try
to purchase but was end up being
purchased by a a private individual
before we could move on it um so there
you know we we've there are some that
we've mapped out we need a process I
think a little bit more proactively to
monitor as stuff goes up and that gets
to my point Jed
the proactive landowner relations if you
remember we actually colorcoded all of
those large Parcels that are undeveloped
um within the open space corridors and
that's one of our goals is to really
start to build landowner relations there
to see um see to to try to get ahead of
uh of of losing
Parcels
thanks um so to move so those are really
more the open space policy
recommendations I don't know if there's
other questions about any of that or if
you would prefer me to just continue to
go through the various regulation
changes and and other areas before we um
and ask questions at the end do you have
a preference
Jed I think we should press on with your
regulation changes okay we shall press
on so in the first ones that we're T
touching based on deal with the wetlands
regulations and in our Wetlands
regulations Section 1.6 list currently
lists areas of special concern so we're
recommending that that list be updated
to include cold water streams and vernal
pools um as as important special areas
within our and we have more detail on
these that we can submit including the
existing language and our specific
recommended language changes um you know
that that we can
provide uh the second one is to expand
the Upland review area in section
2.26 to include the Hop River cold water
streams and vernal pools to 300 feet
currently it's 200 feet most the most
wetlands in town um the Upland review
area is 100 feet within those areas that
are in section 1.6 those areas of
special concern it's currently 200 feet
so for example around the Hop River it's
200 feet we're recommending um that to
expand that to 300 feet the
justification of that is that's
consistent with the science of where the
the the amount of land that basically
you start to see what are called Edge
impacts that can be that can occur
within um uh those systems um and just
to as a reminder a 300 foot up and
review area does not prohibit activity
within that area it just opens it up for
review for application and review it's
not a a set buffer for example um in L
Wetlands amend section 7 . 6D to include
the commission may require an animal or
plant inventory of the Wetland Andor
surrounding up and review areas that's
language that's in um other towns
regulations and it it dovetails with the
ability of the wetlands commission to be
able to utilize um the Vernal pool data
that that was collected in the natural
resource inventory so if there was an
application pending where they felt it
was important to collect where we didn't
have inventory data because it was on
private land and we didn't have access
that the commission could recommend um
that in that that data be collected as
part of the information that they would
you use to review the the
project um amend section 4.4 to require
a notification of Timber Harvest form um
currently um there is that is one of the
areas where we see a lot of variability
and we're relying on the applicants or
the the contract Foresters to determine
whether there's a wetland um they're
within an Upland review area or whether
there's a Vernal pool on as part of the
Timber Harvest uh and what I'm seeing is
that there's a there's wide variability
on what we're what the commission is
actually receiving for
applications um and that's an area I
think that we need to strengthen the
review potential Timber Harvest is a
byright activity um but that is the
bught is Det determined by the
commission so the commission um you know
basically makes that determination if
that activity is by right so uh I think
it's important to look at getting more
advanced notification of Timber Harvest
uh associated with our parcels and
you'll see that show up a little bit
later in one of the other regulations
we'll recommend it Han could I could I
could I tell you something about yes
Scott you certainly the uh the state
requires every town to be notified of
any timber
Harvest just you know that's just
another whether or not whether or not
it's in a in it's encroaches on a
wetland yeah it it doesn't matter
Harvest is supposed the town supposed to
be notified yeah there is a there is a
there is a a formal Timber Harvest form
and that's what we're recommending sort
of adopting um to be able to utilize to
you know as part of that review process
and that could be jointly used used with
the the the Vernal pool map and the
wetlands maps to determine whether
there's um uh the Harvest Falls within a
the Harvest plan Falls within uh an area
that would require potentially require a
review the other thing it does is it
provides the other it because it's
proactive in that case it allows it
gives you an ability to promote best
management practices so the goal of it
isn't necessary to restrict Timber
Harvest it's really to be able to
promote more best management practices
associated with those and make sure that
we're catching all of those that are
potentially um uh uh impacting some of
the the wetlands of priority wetlands in
town um so to move a bit to zoning
regulations the Ard
5.5.7 point5 um we're recommending
replacing existing 75% removing 7 100%
instead of 75% of the Wetland acreage
from the calculation for um building
allowances uh underd
5.5.7 point1 um we're recommending
replacing 40% with 50% as the minimum
amount of open space set
aside in the Ard 5B point0 and 5.5.2 a
um replace Parcels of 10 10 acres or
greater with 5 Acres or greater to be
the default development method for open
space
subdivision in other words we're trying
to promote more within our open space
areas in those Ard we're trying to Pro
promote more um uh open space you know
preservation through that mechanism
would that be just within the corridors
you have or is that everywhere um right
now it would this would apply to where
wherever you have zoned Ard
um a good a discussion could be had is
to limitate within
corridors um you know our concern is
primarily within the corridors because
those are the areas that we've you know
sort of mapped and
recognized um as was done back in 2015
we have more robust data now but as
areas that are the priority for
conservation of natural resources and
for open space so those are the areas
where we have the highest priority for
achieving those goals so again those are
you know discussions I think that need
to be had and Jed as I mentioned this is
something where I think you know the the
to me the you know collecting the
information up front you you then move
forward over the next 10 years of you
know doing the the work with the
different commissions to to vet this and
make the you know make your changes or
make your your adjustments uh going
forward you know with a goal of uh you
know at the end of the 10-year period of
the pocd having achieved various goals
um so these are good those will be good
discussions to be had
okay um let's see where I am
16.42% .
5.3 and ardd 5.5.9 point5 um we're
recommending including Conservation
Commission in The Advisory role for
planning and open space control
currently the Conservation Commission is
not listed in that in that um regulation
we're recommending that the commission
be listed as part of the review
process consider this is a big one
consider establishing a floating or
overlay Zone encompassing The Hop River
and craft appropriate setback
regulations and this comports to Public
Act
2129 which basically um uh it it put it
pretty much mandated to zoning
commissions to uh protect natural you
know to one of the goals was to further
protect environmental resources
especially Water Quality quality
associated with uh navigable Waters to
Long Island Sound which The Hop River
River would fall within and many of our
rivers and water courses in the state do
um The Hop river is that Corridor is
probably one of our greatest planting
challenges in town because it is an area
that is key you know has primary you
know agriculture use is is very strong
there there's good agricultural soils
and a lot of Farmland existing um
obviously it's a major area for
recreation with this with the Hop River
State Park trail there and the various
uses that are opportunities for
recreation along that system uh the
fishing and so forth um stuff we were
just talking about earlier on the
commission with the pickleball courts um
it's also obviously the major
transportation Corridor runs along it as
well as our one of the major areas for
economic development uh and it also sets
sort of the scenic sort of uh trajectory
for the town so it hits on a lot of um I
won't say competing interest because
oftentimes they're not competing they
can be collaborative interests um but
basically there's a lot of land use um
uh plans for that Corridor so I
strategically we we feel that that
really takes um looking at this in a way
that is more holistic and a more
proactive planning approach to try to uh
balance those land use um to make sure
that we don't uh in our case in our
purview we don't impact critical
resources along there but uh other folks
would have other areas that they're
interested in in making sure that
they're trying to realize and that's
that's the balance and one way to get at
that maybe to look at that as an overlay
Zone and really um Drive our
consideration of that Corridor because
it's very unique area within Andover um
I'll go so far as go a bit out on a limb
here to say that I also think a future
goal should be to look at an
intermunicipal compact with Columbia and
centry and Bolton to explore the
possibility of that looking at that hop
River quarter more
collaboratively um uh regarding some of
these uh uh you know land use
initiatives I know there are some joint
initiatives around the corridor but to
be quite Frank that the natural
resources effort that I've seen
associated with them hasn't been um what
I think it needs to be to balance uh and
that's one that uh already The Hop river
is under various pressures that are
affecting its quality and I think we
really we owe it to ourselves to be able
to really get on top of that because
it's such a valuable resources for many
many of the um land use values that we
hold in in in the town uh including
natural resources uh and Public Act
21219 I think gives us leverage and
strengthens our ability to to to do
that so Hank can I jump can I ask you a
question about that sure you can so um
that would so it wouldn't when you say
when you the phrasing you use was
setbacks but it could be a whole raft of
overly regulations about impervious
surface on-site infiltration low impact
development whatever like just basically
a bunch of water qual bunch of water
quality techniques and stuff sure yeah
okay yeah no no yeah and then the
difference too from between the setback
um you know it opens up a whole John it
opens up a whole host of opportunities
of how you would go with that but one of
the things to understand about the
setback which is different than say an
Upland review area an Upland review area
is basically you're saying say you know
the 100 foot Upland review area for our
Wetlands means if you're doing a
regulated activity within that we're
requiring an application so that our
commission our Wetlands commission can
review that and make a determination on
whether there's significant impacts and
you know and and offer advice on how to
balance those and so on and so forth to
try to you know mitigate avoid or
mitigate impacts to those Wetlands a
setback is a little different a setback
is where you basically can say hey
within a 100 feet of the Hop River you
can't put a structure so it's not a
review thing it's basically saying
you're not doing this because that 100
feet around that is is is critical so we
would want to look at that and look you
know look at again um you know that the
the world of tools within um within that
overlay area uh that would enable us to
basically protect the water quality and
protect those other values from a
recreational standpoint from a um um you
know from Transportation standpoint a
variety of different approaches to
protect that system we're looking at it
strictly from the natural resources but
we recognize that there are a wide range
of values associated with that um and
you know to me one of the challenges is
these are often looked at as competing
resources you often see it that way you
know balance and I almost trapped myself
into it saying you know balance the
competing uses they're not necessarily
competing uses uh you know they can they
can the trick is you know what you're
doing and where you're doing it within
there and how you're doing it and that
requires being proactive on the review
front so that you can basically
effectively achieve your multiple goals
yes you're going to have occasions where
you run a you know you you you you run
it loggerheads at a particular site but
the re reality of is more like a bell
curve with most of the stuff Falls
within the middle and with good
proactive planning you can achieve you
can achieve your multiple values um
through that effort um rather than
looking back and saying gez we wish we
had done that or somebody complaining
that you know it's too late to go back
now so I think that gives us an
opportunity and I think it would be that
would be interesting discussions on you
know whether you know you know we we
want as a town wanted to pursue that as
a way to look at our The Hop River
Corridor um and then finally from
management standpoint and again this is
I'm a big fan of you only can get so
much through regulatory it really
requires a public investment and value
of natural resources and I believe that
you know we tend to have that in our
communities you talk with folks they
value the land they value the land for a
lot of reasons they value and it's
really all about the land um so um
there's various roles that are played
within that so for example within the
wons commission utilizing the Vernal
pool maps and data collected in the NRA
to guide relevant application reviews
and through that process even though
that's a regulatory process oftentimes
uh you can provide a lot of uh comments
and recommendations that are best
management recommendations
um that are not necessarily a regulatory
cudle but because you've now have an
application before you it gives you that
opportunity to weigh in on on a
particular project um Public Works and
the Conservation Commission um a good
example of that is there was uh when
Carrie cromton was on our commission
over the past couple of years there were
a lot of conversations had with Eric and
with Public Works about seasonal mowing
recommendations around municip ipal our
Municipal properties to support
pollinator habitat including the uh the
establishment of a monarch uh way
station along the Hop River Trail that
has signage and is monitored and
maintained and MaryAnn and uh um uh
Carrie were out there this year
maintaining it so that's a good example
of looking at and we've mapped certain
areas that this is supportive you know
looking at best management practices
that enhance pollinator habitat which
adds to beautification which you know
ties to the trail I mean there's these
These are it's a good example of of
using good management Strategic
Management um the Conservation
Commission we are very interested in
have already begun this promoting um
natural resource conservation service
has a variety of programs that are
available to land owners that will help
pay for various management and
enhancement of habitats all the way from
invasive plant removal to putting up bat
boxes to agriculture I mean there's a
variety to forestry applications um
we've already held two workshops for
land owners um but this is another good
example of reaching out to land owners
in a proactive way to promote best
management opportunities based on their
goals for their Pro property but also
gives us the opportunity to inform them
what we found through our natural
resource
inventory resources they may not be
aware of um and management practices
they may not be aware of but gives them
opportunities and uh to fulfill some of
their goals in a way that that ties with
natural resource goals within um within
the town um but again proactive uh and
then same with Farmland protection
programs to support the agriculture
Community we already have some parcels
in in various agriculture lands there
are numerous agricultural lands along
the Hop River um they serve multiple
functions both agricultural functions as
well as Prime habitat for many species
um beautification there so there's again
there's best management practices
associated with those that can be used
that will um not only allow you know
continue with agricultural goals but can
now be you know better support some of
the natural resources goals about
preserving things like
biodiversity good example of that is the
Hop River Corridor The Hop River
supports um a reg a state and region
significant population of the wood
turtle um that's a a state listed
species that's currently under review by
the fish and wildlife service for for
listing under the federal Endangered
Species Act uh and that decision it was
due last year who knows when that will
come down uh but there are certain
mowing practices that can enh that
reduce injury and mortality to Wood
turtles that use hay fields and Fields
along the river system um and I can show
you many images of wood Turtles with big
chunks out of their shell from from
mowing equipment so there's there's ways
that uh practices mowing practices that
that that can reduce that so as the
Conservation Commission we're gonna
that's one of the outreaches that we're
we're looking at undertaking with our
agricultural community and that
strategic Zone um along the Hop River
Corridor uh provide information and
guidance regarding notification Timber
harvests and promote best management
practices regarding wetlands and water
courses including veral pools to land
owners this gets back to the farry uh
form once again once if if we if we are
getting forums in now that um to review
for Timber Harvest this provides the
opportunity to engage with the the
landowner as well as the Forester um
that's usually contracted by the
landowner uh to be able to have a
conversation on that plan and pro
promote best met forestry practices um
that support other goals um Beyond just
uh Timber harvest the value of the
Timber Harvest and finally coordinate
with we need to we as the Conservation
Commission we feel we need to do a
better job of working with Alma on
planning for conservation management of
Andover Lake and its Waters shed that's
obviously one of our um primary high
value natural resources and recreational
resources in town uh that that
maintaining the water quality of that uh
can be challenging Jay um Jed you
alluded to that earlier uh but and we we
right now don't have a um a you know a I
would say a collaborative relationship
with them we just haven't worked with
them but that's one thing we'd like to
work for more forward on to look at best
management practices and how we can help
support protecting that resource so
these are I think that's the last one
yep so those are a list of um the
recommendations that we've drafted as I
mentioned we have a document that
actually takes the language that we have
the existing language and then you know
shows that and then imp you know shows
how what changes we would like to make
so as we go through the process um with
the plan of conservation development we
would like to uh have the that process
consider these recommendations to
utilize uh the information that we've
collected as a way to implement the the
information that we've collected through
our natural resource inventory and open
space uh mapping and I'll stop there
because I know that's a hell of a lot
thank have you had any discussions with
Joe Wagner on those Inland
Wetlands recommendation I what I am not
on the regulation changes I sat down
with Joe when we completed the um
natural resource inventory I sat down
with Joe and at the Town Hall and I gave
him all of our files I gave him the um I
I I showed well I showed him how to log
on to the our GIS site and uh on um
argis public site so he could access all
of our maps including the Vernal pool
map and our Wetlands maps that we have
there I shared with him the complete
spreadsheet database that ties to that
for the vernal pools which was the
inventory as well as the best
development documents that are that that
our work was based off of that that the
wetlands commission can use in reviewing
applications that provide the best
management strategies for for working
around those S wetlands and veral pools
so he has all that information um I have
not gone through the regul you know the
recommended regulation changes I've had
some sort of off the record
conversations you know when we were
jointly reviewing for example a forestry
application uh together you know so and
I've you know I've I've given
indications that you know that that we
were looking at potential changes to um
certain areas of the regulations and
certain policies but we hadn't you know
hadn't formally form you know formulated
them yet so he's aware of some of it but
not all of the specifics and he has all
of the information so the information
could actually be being used right now
yeah good I think uh the recommendations
are good they're uh specific and I think
we'd actually have a good shot at uh
actually doing them so you know what
what could be better than that um is
there somebody on Alma that you
coordinate with um we actually have to
we there there hasn't been we have two
new and the names are going to escape me
because it's been um I think Eric knows
one of them um there are two two new
individuals who have expressed an
interest and MaryAnn probably could
weigh in um because she's been in
contact with them um two individuals who
have expressed an interest in joining
the commission and one of them is uh is
a part of Alma that would be fantastic
yeah Alma does two meetings a year one's
normally in June one's in
October and uh to have you know that Lis
on person whether they're if they're on
both commissions that brings you the
information otherwise you could attend
the meetings there and and uh speak your
peace but
uh I think that's an easy relationship
to build yeah no I agree and that's one
I think we need to do for
sure okay commission members have any
questions for
Hank remember Harvest thing Hank I I
agree with you just to be a little bit
more strict and uh you know some kind of
um like guidelines definitely you know I
I only mentioned to you that the the the
state
requires anyone that's harvesting Timber
to notify the town in addition to what
you were saying you know those
notification forms are out
there the I think the state is
rewriting the timber Harvest
notification for to so it's a state form
so all those things should be in your
regulations that you know require all
that
stuff yeah that would be just like you
know the building permit gets rooted to
the uh Zoo to make sure that there's no
zoning right issues in there and that's
just a workflow issue that uh right we
need to get but that makes all the sense
in the world yep that's exactly right
Jed it's a workflow it's basically just
a and it gives you a proactive look at
it yep
Doo you review the recommendations that
uh you had for you know the zoning ranks
but they all
seemed they all consist they they seem
to support the directions that I'd like
to go I assume you know most of the
other commission members would too and
uh I think those are easy changes to
make yeah I I mean I do I think it
supports the direction when you know we
went back and looked at both the 2015
plan of conservation development as far
as it related to open space and natural
resources you know it I think we're
building on what was done then and I
think when you look at the regulations
what you did with the Ard especially um
you know there's you know we're building
on work that's been done um you know so
and I and I that so it makes sense to
me okay and I know we want to get with
you John and I and ever else you want to
uh you talk about the way ahead there
we're not quite ready to uh sit down
with you with our zoning map that's not
proceeded quite as fast as I was hoping
but we're improving that and one of the
steps we want to do before
we agree with the
zoning zones that we have is we see
where where your you know highly uh
desirable properties are to protect and
we make sure we're not doing something
on word there so I'll get with you and
John here at some point soon and we'll
figure out when we can get together to
do something like that we look forward
to it okay and we thank you for your uh
your your consideration and you know for
uh working with us thank you Hank
Maryann Maryann do you have anything
else you want to share with us um no
I'll said just um when do you expect
she'll be ready to meet with us to uh
start proceeding with some of the
logistics well I am thinking that you
know I got to find out with with John's
schedule a little bit but Thursday
mornings seem to be open for me and
and we get together with John I don't
know how that works for you and Hank at
all but I would hope that we get
something you know early
February okay right
anything
else no I
don't thank you very much thank you you
D
yes D hi it's lean um that was um I
would hope that when you're making
arrangements to meet that anything
that's done would come back to this
commission I it it almost sounds like it
would almost have to oh absolutely yeah
once we get once we get the chapter uh
you're going to get to uh review it
weigh in on it and all that stuff we'll
have more discussions on it we're just
trying to figure out how to go from Hank
slides to a chapter that we can look
at okay I wasn't sure exactly what was
going to happen after you you know if
you schedule as you were starting to say
some morning meetings what was going to
be the next step yeah well next step is
draft a
chapter okay and then once we get the
draft then we'll all get a chance to uh
look at
that okay
good um John this is this is the only uh
topic we have on plan of conservation
and development did you have anything
else you wanted to uh you or Jeremy
wanted to discuss here with us tonight
uh no just a just a heads up um Jeremy
and I have drafted up a um sort of an
introductory chapter um that kind of
does an overview of what a planet
conservation development is what
andover's history has been what the
state plan you know process is uh and
some of the background demographics and
and trends that um we talked a little
bit about demographics and Trends you
know probably nine months ago but this
is sort of a put it in chapter format um
we were doing a little bit of editing on
it uh yesterday and today and we will
basically send it out probably this week
um just for people to read through over
the next month and we'll we'll look for
editorial comments next time um and
we're also finalizing a map um that that
identifies um key Transportation
improvements to accompany the complete
streets chapter um so we're we're
continuing to do some Drafting and
development in the background and we'll
we'll distribute this stuff um shortly
and then J again as you said um our our
next step um is to basically take the
very excellent work that that um the
Conservation Commission basically is
serving up on a silver platter and and
convert it to the appropriate format um
for for the PCD chapter and then we'll
have hopefully an economic development
discussion in
February February might get full
depending upon the public hearing thing
but we'll we'll take a look at when we
can can get uh them teed up and ready to
go here um yeah so please please do send
out that uh that draft to the first
chapter it it looks different than the
last pccd introduction and uh yeah I
think it uh it's great I I like the flow
of it the tone of it and uh I think it's
good work so uh but
uh a real writer to to handle this stuff
okay excellent
thank you John and thanks for coming
Jeremy you have anything for us while
you're sitting there no I got lots of
good notes and I have my marching orders
for moving forward so thank you very
much everybody okay yep thanks for
coming tonight
Jeremy thank you the
uh next up is the status of litigation
involving the gravel
pit and
the
uh there's nothing Earth shattering
there I would like to pass on that
subject just in the interest of time um
there's certainly nothing for anybody to
be concerned about um if there's an
interest I can I can it would be less
than 10 minutes on our night but uh um
and I can give you a brief on where it
stands should we do that or uh well
here's how we find
out I motion that the Commission in exe
in her executive session to discuss
pending litigation concerning the Gravel
Pit All commission members Town manager
prospective zoning agent and town
planner are invited to attempt anybody
want to second that
motion
second okay thank you Leanne uh I'll
call for vote
an don't need to no no okay
Scott go if everybody else agrees
to so that's a maybe that's a maybe okay
Patrick uh if we don't have any new
information then I'll my vote is no for
executive session okay well there's no
new information that won't keep till
next
month
Leanne
yes so it sounds like Jed you're the
deciding vote well so I will vote Yes
Leanne voted yes Patrick was no an was
no and that was a
maybe I guess the motion did not pass so
we we forur that this
[Music]
month approval of the minutes from
December
2024 I'll make a motion that the minutes
from our December meeting in 2024 be
approved I'll second
that okay any discussion on the
[Music]
minutes um I had a question I think I
can bring it up
quickly go ahead a question not
necessarily a
correction under number 10
administrative reports
yep um again this is a question this may
have happened this way I just don't know
um in the middle of the sentence talking
about it says um bike rack is behind the
ice is behind ice machine semicolon
storm water management is required as
part of
approval is that correct does storm
water management have something to do
with it or
um again I'm just asking because it
doesn't seem to fit but I'm not sure
that that it's not part of the
approval um storm water management has
nothing to do with the bike rack in the
ice
machine and I don't recall what the
storm management uh comment is and Jim's
not here to uh ask it so I can't answer
the question anybody else have any
insight on that I think I Jed I think I
can answer the question um I believe
we're supposed to receive a
report
yearly
from the property okay and and we have
not that would be good I was I was
actually thinking over the course of the
last month that I remembered uh they had
a bang up system for taking care of
storm water but it required maintenance
and uh so that's probably that yep
um so I guess the way way the comment is
there Leanne is with the semicolon after
ice machine I understand that part and
then uh we need a storm water management
report so maybe if we were to put the
word report after management there that
would make that
clear okay so it's again it has nothing
to do with the bike rack or the ice
machine so maybe if we had the word
report like you just said and then maybe
mention the yearly report that we're
supposed to get because even if if we
just add the word report I reading that
I still wouldn't be clear it still to me
implies it has something to do with a
bike
rack okay like if we just make it a
little more clear that it's a separate
item that we're supposed to get a yearly
report that we haven't
gotten and storm water management is
part of that
report so here's the here's where I
would propose the correction storm water
management report is required as part of
approval a yearly report is required and
has not been
received does that do it for you lean
um I think just maybe make it a separate
sentence is that
okay um because again it is a separate
item if it has nothing to do with the
bike rack it just reading that you
wouldn't know what you just said about
or what Wayne just said about a yearly
report okay let me try again here so we
put a period after
machine and then we say a storm water
management report is required
annually is part of the approval and
this report has not been
received yes that sounds really good
okay got it thank you any other comments
on the
minutes hearing none I'll call for a
vote to approve the minutes as amended
an i Scott I
Patrick I Leanne I and I vote I as well
motion passes 5
Z next up
uh ministrator report zoning agent Wayne
not the zoning agent yet but well on
your way anything for
us yeah you're muted Wayne you're M
muted Wayne yeah there we go all right
uh no
correspondence was received uh we've had
one uh board member who's asked for
uh uh
training the Bar Association training to
date come on who and who's the one
because I thought he didn't I thought I
did
okay and Wayne I also
left him two messages did you okay I
signed up yeah I see Patrick's hands up
all right okay I also
so John
Patrick Scott
J
Scott how about Leanne
Leanne I signed up too yep yeah we knew
you did we had your your name last time
we talked about training over there yeah
okay my bad my bad oh that's okay now on
the zoning agent you know Leanne brought
up the comment the first time Wayne
showed up in a meeting that we needed to
vote
for I wasn't sure what we were vote for
but to approve
Wayne to officially officially appoint
him as an authorized officer to
interpret and enforce your regulations
well that's so I thought that that's
what it was going to be and I looked at
our our uh bylaws and it says that uh
the zoning commission votes on
staff
assignments and
so um not going to do that tonight but
we'll do that in February to and uh you
know so before he can be the official
staff
guy now
normally somebody would leave and it's
not the best practice but then after a
while somebody new comes then the
Planning and Zoning commission votes to
uh to have that guy be the the staff
this was a little different we uh were
fortunate enough to have a very nice
long turnover period And I think uh you
know Wayne is ready to take the reins
here uh probably by the end of February
early March something like that so we
will discuss that uh more exact time
frame at the next meeting but but uh but
Wayne's getting getting close to saying
he's ready to hop in the saddle and then
we will vote at that point on making
Wayne the staff zoning
agent I appreciate your confidence Jed
yep I've enjoyed working with you Wayne
um there's uh you you'll probably make a
mistake or two I make them all the time
and uh don't like it when I do but uh
there you go and uh but uh you've got an
awful lot of good organization and uh
workflow and and that kind of stuff that
uh you can bring to us and I'm looking
forward to
that in L wless water course we approved
the uh the playground uh application at
our last meeting and that was all that
we had there and town planner John
anything else for us there uh no I I
have nothing additional um okay yeah
so uh commission discussion anybody have
anything up for commission
discussion hey Jed yeah hi um yeah I
just want to make sure that the economic
development commission also gets uh some
time with you and John and we can go
over some of our ideas for the future
because uh you know it's really
important that our small businesses are
supported and that we make sure that we
with these new overlays that we have
spots secured for the the growth of our
town places for these walkways to go
places for the town to be connected to
because that ultimately is going to draw
in you know uh ecotourism agrotourism
all that stuff we were talking about the
last meeting um we we just need to make
sure that we're all working together
and uh make sure that we
can uh well the EDC will be coming up
with our own recommendations and and I'm
hoping in a nice PowerPoint because uh
that'll make it a little more concise
for our meeting but okay no I uh make
sure you don't forget about us
absolutely not and thanks I think that
you know the process that we went
through with the Conservation Commission
is working uh is working nicely you know
it's not necessarily quick and easy but
it I think will result in a good product
it takes a little work and we want to do
the same thing now I I do think that the
the starting point there should be the
economic development committee come talk
to us about your ideas just like Hank
Did and uh then we figure out what we
need to do but yes it will uh it will
necessitate some meetings with
uh you and other folks from that John
and I to uh figure out how to put the
chapter together then we'll come back to
the entire commission for thank you
follow on review and and scrutiny there
that would be great thank you okay yep
any other commission
discussion um Communications
so I do have one Communications issue
that to bring to your attention anyhow
and uh I don't know if you can see big
book uh I got in the in the mail from
over at Christmas time talks about a
cell phone tower going in over at the
Hurst Farm and
uh supposedly you know there were a
bunch of us in the town that were sent a
technical report last June or July and
uh I don't recall getting it Eric
doesn't recall getting it I haven't
checked with the Inland W folks but uh
but we had UH 60 or 90 days to give
feedback on it OB viously first I knew
about sell Tower was getting this big
report over
Christmas the
uh did
anybody happen to
notice
the public hearing notice in the River
East last
Friday I did I okay I did obviously as
well and uh you know it was a big long
thing the uh the thing that bothered me
about it
was it did not reference Handover at all
in the heading so I don't know what made
me actually look for it I don't know if
you could see it but uh it's a big long
thing it just says hearing notice and I
oh wow that's about the cell power so
I'm not sure how many people in Andover
would have picked up on the fact because
most people you don't read those notices
anyhow um in the fact we're doing it but
but we don't control cell towers
sighting Council does and so I uh you
know I'm in communicating with our our
legal Representatives I don't plan on
doing anything with that at this point
plan sounded pretty good it's kind of
out there in the middle of nowhere uh it
meets our requirements as far as how
high the tower can be I just wanted to
call your attention that uh if if I saw
that thing in July and didn't do
anything with it bad on me and I'll try
to watch for that stuff in the future I
don't get much Planning and Zoning bail
those I would have thought I would have
got it but uh but that's that's that and
if you're interested you can attend the
hearing look at the public hearing
notice and uh and you can go but uh I
don't think we have much of a say over
where they put cell
towers Jed this is Wayne y far as I know
in Inland Wetlands was not notified
either no I I you know I don't know what
happened to it but I didn't have the
time to make a big stink over something
that I sort of agreed with their plan
and uh and so I was just gonna let that
uh let that go at this
point
um good comment at the public hearing
that we didn't get the technical report
yeah yeah yeah yeah if I was going to do
that I would do that ahead of time and
not uh roll that out there in the public
hearing
Forum um and I did get some feedback
from both uh Mark Brans and Allen about
uh about that and yeah they said there's
not much we could do about it so I said
well why do we have those regulations he
says well somebody might want to put up
a radio tower or a ham radio tower or
something okay we we'll leave them
there um
that's all I have in the the
communication aspect uh thing
miscellaneous anybody got a
miscellaneous
pickle nope okay public comment we uh
anybody left from the public here
Katherine Hutchinson always stays into
The Bitter End thank you Katherine
anything for us other than which you
already
provided no thank you for asking but
I have no comment okay very good uh with
that in mind uh next meeting is
scheduled for February
oh nope I don't think we need a motion
to uh continue the public hearing if we
had to uh schedule a public hearing we
would need a motion for it so I
uh didn't goof that one up we're good to
go okay um thank you very much little
later than I was hoping we would go
tonight but I thought we had a good
session talking about the uh the
playground just unfortunate we forgot to
record it so uh we'll we'll go through
at least the discussion on the uh the
different drawings again next time and
uh that will be that so I have a quick
question about Wayne and Jim yep go
ahead Leanne um you said Jim wasn't
available to be here tonight and we're
going to vote on Wayne I guess next
month y does that mean that there's are
we still in like an overlap period where
there's still both I Ian we know Wayne
is in place but is Jim still in place so
for example if we want to
communicate um you know we usually get
things that say zoning Etc you know the
email address starts out that way so if
we communicate with them will they both
see it will they both do the same thing
for the time being so uh so Jim is still
the guy if you send some the zoning he
will probably get it I think Wayne has
been looking at the zoning email you
know for the last uh couple days while
Jim's gone he's actually a funny story
uh Jim went uh he's doing something fun
and he's doing it down in South Carolina
and he's not having as much fun as he
has hoped because it's snowing down
there I think they got more snow down in
South Carolina than we got up here but
they got they got more snow Louisiana
than we have yep they did so but Jim is
still the guy this was just uh you know
and he felt badly that he could not
attend tonight it was uh somebody else
made his travel plans and and they
didn't quite line up with our meeting
schedule and uh we talked about him
going and I said go have fun and so now
he's down there making Snowmen at
Charleston but as far as lean as far as
the emails are concerned I see the
emails also
okay okay thank you that that answers
that
yep okay so with that said next meeting
is going to be virtual February 18th and
I will make a motion to
adjourn second thank you
Leanne um
945 I got 946 now but uh an okay we call
for a vote Ann
Scott
hi Patrick hi
Leanne
I and I vote I as well motion passes 500
to adjourn I only do that because some
of you guys don't have your screens lit
up I can't see you raising your hand
can't tell who's saying hi so we do it
individually not that I expect anybody
to say let's let this meeting go any
longer